Alright, in this video,
before we get into some of the react stuff,
I wanna go over one more concept.
That's called mocking.
It's a very simple concept,
but sometimes it takes a little bit to really
understand what it is, so we're just gonna take mocking
totally outside of react just to understand
what it is and why might you want to use it.
So let's open up our tests,
and let's make a mocking.test.js.
Inside of that let's just do a quick describe.
Mocking learning.
Then inside of there we'll say it mocks a reg function.
Like this.
Now, what mocking is, is sometimes you'll have some code
that is connected to some other piece of your application.
You might have some code that makes a database call.
You might have some code that hits an API end-point.
So generally what happens is that these things
reach outside of your application to an external service
or to another piece of the application
that would be tested by itself,
and you don't want to necessarily connect those two things
inside of your test because, like,
let's use the API for an example.
If you're reaching outside to an external API,
that's both gonna make your test really slow
because you have to make an external request,
and second it makes your test really brittle,
because you're relying on that API
to be working 100% of the time
in order for your test to pass.
Whereas that API will have its own test
and its own database call test inside of it.
So what you can do with a mock is you can pretend
that function to fetch the data actually went,
and you can pretend what data comes back from it.
And what that does is it makes
your unit test very self-contained.
Let's just do a very simple example that we have here.
And then we'll look at an example
where to actually fetch some data.
In here let's just say
const fetchDogs is equal to,
and then you want to make that,
usually that would be an external API end-point.
Maybe that would be inside of your test somewhere
and we wanna override that with a mock function.
So what we do is we say jest.fn,
and what that does is it makes
this fetchDogs a mock function.
And if we were just to console.log the fetchDogs now
and take a look at our terminal here,
you'll see that the function that we have is an actual mock.
Now, what we could do is we can do
something like just call fetchDogs.
And now we can expect
the fetchDogs function toHaveBeenCalled.
And now that has been called.
And then we could say expect
the fetchDogs function toHaveBeenCalledWith snickers.
And now we get an error, right?
So it was called,
but snickers, as an argument 1,
was called with undefined, so then we could go back here,
we could run it with snickers.
I guess that would have to be a lowercase.
There we go.
We could also do a couple more.
Expect the fetchDogs toHaveBeenCalledTimes, 2 times.
Now it's gonna fail, right?
Maybe we'll call it again: fetchDogs hugo.
Now it's working, right?
So you can imagine this fetchDogs function
would live inside of a react component
and then you can override it with a mock function here.
And then we'll be able to peer into that mock function
and see if it's been called,
see what it's being called with,
see how many times it's been called.
You can also mock all of the return values,
so let's just head over to the Jest documentation.
Go down to mock functions here,
and you see that you can access all of these properties.
You can clear a mock, you can restore it,
and then you can also mock promises
of what it's going to be returned with,
or it could be rejected with.
So let's take a look at how
to actually do that with promises,
'cause that's likely what something is gonna go.
So let's go up to the top here
and let's just write a function that
would probably be in a library
somewhere in one of our components.
And generally you might import a component
and then you can override it,
but let's just write it in here.
So we'll say function Person
takes in a name and takes in an array of foods.
And I'll say this.name is equal to the name,
and this.foods is equal to the foods.
Then we'll modify the prototype,
so Person.prototype.fetchFavFoods.
That is equal to an arrow function.
And then we're just going to return a new promise
that has a resolve and a reject.
And then after two seconds, so setTimeout,
we'll resolve with this.foods after two seconds.
So what this is doing here is that
we are making a function that lives
on every single person called fetchFavFoods,
and then after two seconds we are
going to return their favorite foods.
And this is just like simulating an API.
So in the real world this would probably go off
to some external API and actually fetch
the data that we have there.
Now we're gonna go down here and (mumbling).
Let's just test if that function actually works
so it can create a person.
And we'll create a person right inside this test,
so const me is equal to new Person, say Wes,
and our favorite food is pizza and burgs.
Then we can just expect the person.name toBe Wes.
Doesn't work.
What is our error here?
Oh, not person.name, it's me.name.
There we go.
So that seems to be working.
But let's try it with the actual fetching of food.
So it can fetch foods.
And let's just take this mean, duplicate it down to here.
And we'll go here and we'll say const favFoods
is equal to me.fetchFavFoods,
and that is going to return a promise,
so we'll await it and then mark this as a sync.
And then here what we're gonna do
is you can just console log the favFoods.
Then we'll expect favFoods toContain pizza.
Error.
What do we got here?
Cannot read property foods of undefined.
I believe that is because we need a regular function here.
Let's move this inside of here.
And everything works,
but you see how long this test takes?
2.005 seconds, and that's really slow,
because every time I want to rerun it,
it's gonna go off to that external API,
the simulation of an API,
and it's gonna take however long it needs to do.
And for some reason, maybe this API would be down
and then our test won't be passing,
and we wouldn't be able to push our build.
So what you can do is you can swap out
this fetchFavFoods with a mock function
and just simulate it returning some data.
So let's go down here.
And before we actually fetch the favorite foods,
let's mock the favFoods function.
So we'll say me.fetchFavFoods is equal to jest.fn,
and that's going to make it a function,
but we also want to mock what gets returned.
So we'll say .mockResolvedValue.
And we're just going to mock it returning.
An array of, let's say, sushi and ramen.
Now our test is obviously failing
because it's expecting an array of sushi and ramen
and it isn't finding pizza.
We change this to sushi.
You see that it is working just fine,
and now it's running in three milliseconds,
and we no longer have that brittle dependency
on a quote-unquote external function.
I know that we just made a fake API here,
but imagine that was,
and that's exactly what we're gonna
be doing with our Apollo store.
We don't actually wanna hook up to an external Apollo store
and have to query a database for all of that stuff.
We want to fake return some data to our components
and then check if those components
are rendering out properly,
so that is exactly what mocking is.
And in the coming videos we are
going to be mocking our Apollo store.